---
layout: post
title: "GSoC 2025: Bridging Backend and Frontend – Conversion API & Deployment (Week 2)"
categories: Week 2
---

## GSoC Weekly Blog – Week 2

### Daily Work Log



#### 06/9 – Monday
- Continued development:

  - Structured service and controller layers in the NestJS backend.

  - Improved logging and file handling.

  - Integrated file conversion logic more cleanly into NestJS architecture.

  - Conducted more testing with different file formats (obj, stl, ply, x3d, etc.).

#### 06/10 – Tuesday
- Explored supported file formats via BRL-CAD’s GCV plugin directory.

- Discussed supported formats with @Daniel Rossberg and mentors.


#### 06/11 – Wednesday
- Set up the frontend folder and began work on a second PR for the UI to demonstrate the full upload→convert→download cycle.
- Created a basic UI for file upload and download.
- Completed with the frontend part


#### 06/12 – Thursday
- Pushed the  code to GitHub and opened a PR for the API:
- PR#5 – Conversion API

- Tested for valid and invalid files.


#### 06/13 – Friday
- Shared deployment strategy:

  - Researched deployment options.

  - Use Vercel for the frontend.

- Explored platform options like Render for deploying the backend service.

- Began preparing for frontend deployment via Vercel.

- Cleaned up the codebase and frontend interface.

#### 06/14 – Saturday
- Continued with Docker setup and deployment testing.

- Getting some error with the docker setup

#### 06/15 – Sunday
- Tried to fix the docker setup error
- Build the local image file